It's like
very distinct pleasure to welcome you all over the second
lecture
off this week.
It's customary to say
about
that ,
and I was walking. Move into this building. I thought ,
Think about thinking about really
9,000 students who will be graduating this cure and maybe walking around campus today.
I'm thinking it would be nice
if some future
some Balkan
or a Balkan artists would come and give his or her impressions about this year to us.
Bill ,
if you take yourself back by. That was 100 years 18 93 students from here ,
and I did not know exactly what he was thinking , But I certainly thought Lord , that will realize
give people
others
from outside. Louise would come
and share their experience results , results without
maybe from New York from the
West Coast.
And wouldn't it be nice other schools , including
to enjoy on Lord in Georgia for north from them ?
40 years ago , he made a request.
We have grown
and
just you.
Some other monies have been added with , which makes it possible for us to invite
people like ,
but it's interesting to come here
and share his research results with us. That person wass Ji Young
I invite now
in a gross Lewis of the Department of English was also the task of the campus.
Introduce us.
I
can't
contributions to our
standing about
American diversity.
Former record of service and achievement ,
field of fire education
The
scope of
his research encompasses nearly every major today this concerned administrators student There's professionals for 40 years ,
the
leadership
of major organizations that help with your gender. Skulls students Higher Education
Nascent Annual survey A freshman he founded , directed for more than 30 years ,
the longest running research program with
higher education
has provided extraordinary collection of data of value.
People
as well as Lady Place on the Road with countless journalists ,
have important social Trans
that experience extraordinary positivity. You think it is like their shape and improve the work.
But those dedicated career serving better understanding needs of factory.
You see that you get it for college species
diversity
that only positions of the National Merit Scholarship Corporation
as director of Research Council Education
move. You know , you see already where the other than Carter , professor of education
and director the Higher Education Research.
There are a lot of books with three of the articles monographs chapters of the publication.
Besides 1/4 of our profession ,
his best known works include The Land Far for years.
They were the decade with the most frequently cited work on higher education literature.
Follow
what Matters College for critical years.
Publish in 1993.
First , we have to analyze data from 20 pounds.
3,000.
You're in an institution.
Just go around. Program back , Dude.
The fact is a development
and then provided recommendations.
Colleges and universities have experiences of their graduates
1,000 degrees.
You see the center's research service awards in virtually every major association
has recognized that change magazine as a person.
Most buyers created insightful taking , delivery education and quote.
This week , as
many of you know , he's working formally and informally with administrators Factory
Campus
as a guest of the foundation election programme
because you just heard university fingers business directorship.
His nomination would support not only by the magnet school education but my colleagues and philosophy
studies
in Business and Spear as well as numerous administrators. Campus level
that's very pleased will deliver the keynote address for a Daniel speak to you
because you know What kind of student success
is that ? What you want from me ?
Your body.
Thanks , everybody. I hope I can manage this thing without dropping it. Let me see here. Okay.
Does that do it ?
Good.
Can you all hear me in the back ? All right.
Okay ,
um ,
I'm going to put the light on here , so I can see , uh ,
as we all know , we traditionally defined studentssuccess ,
uh , in terms. What , while the student is in college , in terms of the time honored great point average
or if we want to do a minimal kind of , uh , success path in courses and finishing a degree program.
Uh ,
and if you want to look at it at high level , we've defined it in terms of receiving honors of various kinds.
And then after college , we look att , success in terms of such things as entry to graduate school , or or perhaps
what kind of graduate school you're able to enter , how he lead it is or whether we get a job and especially ,
uh , what kind of job and indeed how much it pays. Earnings have been used in many cases as measures of success ,
but in a sense ,
These are all , uh , in one way or another. Traditional academic measures or vocational measures.
Uh ,
earnings , for example , Is I
probably
the equivalent in a sense of the g p A ,
um
the post college equivalent. So four. So these things are all connected , academic and vocational ,
uh , measures of success.
Now , the premise of my talk this afternoon is that while there's nothing inherently
wrong or sinful about these traditional measures ,
um , they're simply not enough.
And if we prison ist in linking our conception of students success for limiting our conception of student success in this way ,
we're selling short not only our institutions and our students , but also the society that supports us.
Let me try to explain why I believe this is so.
There's mounting evidence that the quality of civic life and civic engagement in the United States has been eroding in recent years.
Well , let's the problems is a long one , and I don't want to belabor it , but let me just review mentioned a few of these things. Shaky race relations , growing economic disparities and inequities , excessive materialism , decaying inner cities , a deteriorating infrastructure ah , weakening public school system on irresponsible mass media , declining civic engagement and the increasing
in the increasing effect excuse the decreasing effectiveness of governmental agencies and people contain just a few. In a democracy , of course ,
citizen disengagement from politics and government ineffectiveness not only go hand in hand but also cripple our capacity
to educate each new generation of leaders and government business ,
uh , law , medicine , the clergy
and other advanced professions.
Since our colleges and universities educate each new generation of leaders in these fields
and train all the personnel who teach the entire population at the pre collegiate level ,
we in the higher
education community must bear some responsibility for these societal problems that disturb us so much.
Apparently , our graduates are not
successful enough in these other areas to begin to solve the social problems and indeed may have become a part of the problem.
And considering that our higher education system is generally regarded as the finest one in the world , we need to ask ourselves , where have we gone wrong ?
The more I reflect on the problems confronting higher education in the larger society , the more I become convinced that at the heart of these problems
in trying to effect positive social change is a question of beliefs. And as those of you who heard me Tuesday night will know , this is sort of my current preoccupation.
By this , I mean not only our beliefs about what students success means , but also our beliefs about the meaning and purpose of a liberal education and our view , our view of the role that higher education should play in the larger society
to speak of success
means very little and makes a little sense unless we also consider the issue of success to what end ,
in other words , our beliefs about students successor closely tied to our beliefs about the purposes of education and the role of higher education in the society.
The problem is not just with our beliefs about these matters , but also that these beliefs remained largely unexplained and unexposed while we discuss and debate the educational policies and practices that emanate from them.
Why we are educating our students has to do with a relationship between higher education and society.
But different people hold very different views about this relationship , and it's important that we expose and identify and recognize and honor these different views.
An extreme view which would probably be endorsed by only a small number of hard core academic elitist ,
such as perhaps Robert Maynard Hutchins ,
if that the university should remain walled off from the external world of practical affairs. So students can learn and study and faculty can pursue truth undisturbed by worldly distractions.
And I would call if the ivory tower view of what we're all about.
Um ,
now the ivory tower concept might have a certain appeal appeal for some of my academic colleagues , and I must admit , I know a few for whom it has a great deal of appeal.
It could not and never will , represent a viable conception
of higher education and its role in modern American society.
Like it or not , higher education is a creature of society , is sanctioned and supported by that society and has in turn pledged itself to serve that society in its mission statements in its catalogs and other public pronouncements. In other words , we're sort of on on the hook here
in our rhetoric
on alternative belief system , which seems to dominate in discussions of educational policy these days , is what I perhaps one charitably like to call the pegboard view of what we're trying to do.
Under the pegboard view , student success is judged in terms of how have prepared the student is for work.
The peg board. You also is what drives what I like to call , uh , the the competitiveness argument.
Uh , so I'll put these up here together
because they are twins.
This is the dominant belief system. Not only of our captives are captains of industry , but also of most politicians and policymakers , not to mention many students , teachers and parents.
The idea here is that higher education must deliver more people with expertise in science , technology and modern management techniques so that America's economy can remain competitive
with the economies of Western Europe and especially with the emerging economies on the Pacific Rim.
My main problem with the pegboard and competitive competitiveness views is that they represent an extremely limited conception not only of the role of higher education but also of what the larger society is all about. When we consider the major problems plaguing our society.
It's very difficult to imagine how the pegboard view and the competitiveness you are going to contribute much to this simply to fill job lots in the labor market certainly is not going to do the trick when it comes to dealing with problems such as our decaying inner cities to our racial problems , to the inequities in the distribution of wealth and so forth.
Now a close cousin of the pegboard view is what I like to call the private economic benefit view or the consumer viewpoint about what we're all about.
And this particular viewpoint argues that the purpose of higher education
is to enable people to lead more affluent and comfortable lives. And a lot of politicians like Toe advocate this view with sort of a populist view as they see it , where the more education you get , the more money you can make
and even rationalize it in terms of , uh , productive. It ease of arguments having to do with productivity.
Even if we were to accept the argument that private economic benefits provide the main justification for our existence as educational institutions , this particular belief system is extremely limited because it has little to say about how society as a whole is served by such an approach.
In other words , why it may be a lot of gold
to contribute to the economic comfort and well being of those citizens who are fortunate enough to enter and complete higher education. This you point has little to say about what's gonna happen to people who don't
go to college or complete college. North doesn't say anything about how , if it all the many other social economic problems that I've mentioned earlier will be addressed by such an approach
on entirely different kind of belief system is implied in the various public pronouncements that I've already alluded to that we make in our mission statements and catalogs and the presidential state of the college reports and so forth.
In many ways , thes , sometimes lofty statements come as close as anything , John Dewey's conception of the proper role of education in society.
If we were to study the mission statements , in fact , some of our graduate students have done this , uh , the mission statements of a randomly selected group of American higher educational institutions. We would sell them if ever find any mention of private economic benefits , international competitiveness or filling slots in the labor market.
On the contrary , when it comes to describing its educational mission , the typical college university will use such language as preparing students for responsible citizenship , developing character , developing future leaders , preparing students to serve society and so on.
In other words , if we're to believe our own rhetoric , those of us who work in the Academie see ourselves as serving the society and of promoting and strengthening our particular form of democratic self government.
We might refer to this as the citizenship or the service concept of our missions.
While such a belief system does not preclude individual economic benefits or filling slots in the labor market , uh , or enhancing economic competitiveness ,
the central focus is on responsible citizenship and service.
The citizenship view , I would argue , implies a much broader conception of Studentssuccess.
Then do the other views.
Clearly the manner in which we approach this issue of students successful depend heavily on which of these belief systems we embrace.
Success
implies one thing if we see ourselves simply as helping young people to lead more comfortable in affluent lives. But quite another thing , if we see ourselves working together to strengthen our society and our democracy ,
given the current state of our democracy in our society , I would argue that we have no choice but to embrace this view.
The problem , of course , is that if you look at the typical American college or university , it's curriculum and his co curriculum. It's teaching and personnel practices and the values that governance , administrative policies. It's very difficult to find much evidence of a core commitment to preparing students for responsible citizenship.
Most institutions
have simply not put their citizenship in service commitments into practice ,
despite the growing interest in service and civic engagement within the academy. And this is a very healthy development. It seems to me there's a lot more we can do to renew and revitalize civic engagement and democracy in the US
in the classroom , for example , we can start giving more attention to the development of those personal qualities which are crucial to civic life and effective democratic self government.
And by this I mean quality such a self understanding , you know , that's kind of at the basis of all the great philosophical and religious traditions. Where is it in the curriculum ? I have a hard time finding it. Self understanding , listening skills ,
leadership ,
empathy ,
honesty ,
generosity ,
the the ability to work collaboratively.
Most of these qualities exemplify aspects of what Daniel Goldman would call emotional intelligence.
We can also begin to introduce the concept of civic responsibility and citizenship into faculty discussions of curricular reform.
Such a shift in our curricular discussions would be easy to justify , given the fact that , as I've said are catalogs and mission statements are all full of that kind of rhetoric
and given some very promising current developments in the curricular area. And I'm thinking here of the emphasis on multiculturalism and the environment just as two examples , we can also build on these efforts by introducing general education content that focuses more directly on issues of contemporary American civic life and democracy. And what do I mean by this ?
The central role of information and the mass media
theory of democracy says you , you don't have an informed electorate. It doesn't work
well. I don't think the mass media are exactly without problems in this area.
The possible causes of declining civic engagement and declining trust in government ,
the escalating role of money and politics , the growing corporate influence and so on. There's a long list of these , and we could do much more to institutionalize service learning
both in the general education curriculum and in the major , and I think we should all do this.
And those who complain that requiring service diminishes that all I can say is , Do we diminish English comp by requiring it ?
Do it ,
uh , we require what we value.
So we make a value statement when we require something with student.
What I'm really suggesting here is that we can begin to broaden our conception of studentssuccess to include a genuine commitment on the part of the institution to renewing civic life and civic engagement in American society.
And we can manifest that commitment by embracing significant changes in our curriculum teaching practices , reward system , community relations and , most importantly , in the values and beliefs that guide our policies and practices ,
I might add here , that are narrow definition of students. Success is in many ways parallel to our narrow approach to defining fact early success
in the research universities. We pay lip service to the importance of teaching , mentoring and university service. But the fact is that the faculty success is defined nearly exclusively in many places in terms of research and scholarship
by default , important faculty talents like good colleague ship , which are so critical to creating a really academic community. Get little or no wait. In judging the professional success of our colleagues
in my patent lecture on Tuesday evening ,
I discussed our traditional beliefs about what makes our institutions excellent
and forgive me for repeating myself , but they're a lot more people here do not this afternoon. So at least I better , uh , refresh you your memory. And this is , of course , the gospel according to Sandy. So I don't mind preaching it once more.
Uh ,
most of us definer excellence in terms. Either of their resource is that we have. And I've got a new chart here for you guys who were here Tuesday evening. This is an equation. Now I'm getting quantitative about this , uh ,
where we define our excellence in terms of what we have and what others think
of us.
It just is ,
uh uh , What ? I
would call the ego centric approach to defining excellence.
Uh , and
and while and while there's nothing inherently wrong , we have tohave resource is toe function , and we have to have reputations to attract students and faculty.
Uh , when we concentrate on these as the end as the ultimate definition of our excellence ,
Uh , we again Diminish and Andi value. Uh , student learning.
Uh ,
and as I had argued , uh , Tuesday night that
what we really need to move toward is a concept of excellence that's based on how effectively we're able to educate our students , but effectiveness and studentssuccess being seen in much broader terms.
My concern about the reputation when resources conception is that they failed to address directly our basic societal purposes of teaching in public service. Not that we don't need these resource is reputation , but paradoxically , it can also cause us
neglect our research mission. This is the irony of it , because we've become more focused on acquiring research talent , then in nurturing and developing the research talent that's already there.
The roots of three of our most intractable problems in academia , I would argue , can be found in this preoccupation with resource acquisition and reputational enhancement. Let me just quickly review these because they're familiar to all of us.
And yet we don't normally think about them in terms of how their products
of our belief system about what makes us excellent.
For example , the valuing of research over teaching
and the struggle between equity and excellent
and the issue of individualism versus community
are all in one way or another , connected to our beliefs , about the importance of acquiring more resource is and enhancing our reputation. We value research more than teaching because we believe that outstanding scientists and scholars will add more to our reputation , and resource is then we'll outstanding teachers or mentors.
And when we defying our excellence in terms of the test scores of the entering students , the high student , high scoring student be being viewed Here is a resource which I find interesting
that enhances our reputation.
We
sat
our sense of excellence in direct conflict with our desire to promote educational opportunities for those groups in our society whose test scores put him at a competitive disadvantage.
Finally , when we place the highest value in the individual scholarly accomplishments of our students and faculty , we reinforce their competitive and individual individualistic tendencies , making it very difficult for them to develop those qualities that help promote a sense of community on the campus.
And again , I mean good colleague , ship
collaboration , community service , citizenship and social responsibility. These latter qualities , of course , are the same ones that are needed to make any democracy work
if we really mean it. When we claim that education is our central mission , then student learning should be at the heart of our conception of excellence. I like to call if the civic or talent development of you
of ,
uh , what our mission is all about.
However , even if we accept this talent development view , we still need to answer the question.
Which talents
and to what end ?
As I consider all the ways in which our traditional of beliefs about excellence and studentssuccess
interfere with our ability to improve and strengthen civic life in American society , no problem strikes me as being more important.
Then the education of the so called remedial were underprepared students.
Now , by examining this issue in some depth ,
we can begin to see how it might be possible for higher education institutions ,
not me , to broaden our conception of students success , but also to become more effective agents of positive social change.
If we fail to develop more effective interventions for our so called remedial or developmental students , we'll find it very difficult to make much headway in resolving some of our most pressing social and economic problems. And by this I mean unemployment ,
crime , welfare , health care , racial tensions , the MALP , distribution of wealth and citizen disengagement from the political process.
I say this first because underprepared students aren't you have historically been the ones most likely to drop out
of at any level of education. And second , because persons with relatively low levels of educational attainment account for a disproportionate number of welfare recipients , prison inmates , poor people , the unemployed and people who don't vote
Beyond this , the issue of race relations and affirmative action are intimately connected to the issue of under preparation.
Since we have created a competitive hierarchical system which dispenses privilege on the basis of measures , here we come again with a success measures the G p A in the test scores that put our two largest racial minority group at a competitive disadvantage.
If our educational system allocated its resource is more equitably across these various groups by socioeconomic and race measures , there'll be little need for affirmative action.
It goes without saying that the underprepared student is a kind of pariah in American higher education , and some of the reasons are obvious ,
since most of us believe that our excellent depends on enrolling more and more of the very best prepared students
to admit underprepared students would pose a real threat to our sense of excellence.
Why would any sane institution want to do this ?
But here the public institutions encounter a bit of a dilemma , since the law and many states requires that at least some underprepared students be given an opportunity to pursue postsecondary education.
How can this be done so we don't put our excellence at risk ?
The answer , of course , is that we've created higher our republic systems ,
where the least well prepared students are consigned either to community colleges or two relatively non selective public colleges.
And when selective institutions find themselves forced to admit a few 100 prepared students , for example , to maintain competitiveness in Division One A athletics.
And
trust me on this , there ain't nobody more underprepared than Division One a revenue sports athlete.
They likewise avoid having much contact with the students by hiring part time tutors and in part time instructors from the outside to do the work.
These tracking practices exert a subtle but powerful influence on the attitudes and beliefs of our students and indeed of the larger society ,
who are probably going to be influenced much more by what we do in our admissions process , for example , then by what we say about such things as equality of opportunity or multiculturalism or educational equity
by practicing selective admissions. Using these narrowly defined measures of students success , we're sending important value messages.
We don't value the education of the students with the lower scores ,
and we send this message not only to our own students but also to
the remedial students whom we reject to those who must teach them into the larger society.
No wonder the teaching underprepared students is viewed as I'm glamorous , unimportant and in many institutions , the meaning
white oh wide oh , underprepared students make us so uncomfortable.
Is it just that they're more difficult to teach which I believe they are ,
and that their presence on campus threatens our sense of excellence ?
Or are there deeper reasons ?
While our beliefs about students success and the importance of resource acquisition and reputational enhancement are fairly obvious ,
we can see these upon a little bit of reflection.
There are other beliefs that we harbor as academics and that have tremendous effects on our practices
that are largely unacknowledged , much left critically examined
and one of these beliefs. And forgive me if those you read my chronicle of higher education ,
Uh ,
tirade on this
one of these beliefs I like to characterize as the importance of beings more.
Now , this may sound flippant. Uh , but I think if you think about it for a while , particularly in terms of your of your experience in this institution or any other ,
uh , perhaps you'll see a little of what I mean. There many other terms , like it used for smart , a brilliance , creativity , intelligence And so But for the purposes of our discussion here , I'll use the more flippant term Smartness.
My many years as a scholar of higher education is an employee of a research university not unlike this one convinces me that much of our fear of remedial students and much of our unwillingness to get involved in educating them Khun be traced to our uncritical acceptance of this belief. And two , the fact that most of us are not even consciously aware of the power and scope of its influence.
Most of us clearly favor our brightest students not only in admissions but in the award of financial aid and also in the classroom.
If bright students and roll out our institutions and take our classes , then this reflects well on our own brightness. Surely we must be smart if our students are so smart.
But if our students are not so smart , then this reflects poorly on us.
This may help to explain why so many academics keep a very close eye
on the average test scores of the entering freshmen if our students are getting smarter and were reassured about our own smartness. But if they're getting dumber , our sense of our own smartness is threatened.
No wonder we hire others to teach remedial students or simply avoid them altogether through selective admissions.
The real problem here
is that we value being smart much more than we do developing smartness.
If our relentless and largely unconscious preoccupation with being smart ,
we forget that our institution's primary mission is to develop intellectual capacities and other capacities of our students not merely to select and certify those whose intellectual talents are already well developed by the time they come to us.
This preoccupation with being smart is also part of the reason why we continue to use measures of Studentssuccess , the G P A and the standardized test score
that are geared to ranking and rating students rather than to reflecting how much they're actually learning.
We all know students who get a's and our courses who didn't put out on the effort , who didn't learn much. But they were very smart and very bright , very clever when they came to us and they're able to get through our exams.
I've already suggested that these assessment devices , particularly the standardized test , imply a very narrow standard of smartness.
But they're also a little value , either in helping students tto learn
or in helping us to evaluate the success of our pedagogical efforts.
We were inflicted the same normative approach to assessing students on the lower schools ,
such that politicians and the public now evaluate the quality of these schools simply on the basis of which ones have the smartest students , rather than on the basis of which ones are the most effective educationally.
And I mean this affected even in terms of this narrow standard of smartness ,
this approach not only does violence to the wonderful diversity of student talents by forcing them all into a single continuum ,
but it. Also ,
it also has the effect of sending a message to the relatively low scoring student.
You're dumb , you're lazy. You're not college material.
It's no wonder so many students drop out of the educational system before they ever reach college age.
A simplistic yardstick like the S a T or the tea ,
uh , is used by many of us as the principal indicator of the student's ability or spartan o R. Smartness.
But by doing this , we implicitly diminish the great social and cultural importance of the citizenship talents that I've mentioned , such as empathy , self understanding , honesty , responsibility , leadership and the ability to work collaboratively.
I might add here that this narrow approach to defining
in assessing talent or merit
has been turned against us with considerable success by the opponents of affirmative action.
I think it'll be very difficult challenge these traditional notions about studentssuccess
and educational excellence unless we do it collectively.
While American colleges universities Khun B , justifiably proud of their diversity in their autonomy Ah , collection of 3,000 institutions simply doing their individual things does not necessarily make for a coherent or effective system.
The problem is not that were also wonderfully different in divers , but rather that the sum total of our individual uncoordinated efforts doesn't always add up to a meaningful whole.
What I'm really asking here is if we're going to persist in defining our excellence
solely in institutional terms ,
or are we goingto be willing to bite the bullet and take a systems perspective ?
Let me see if I could explain what I mean by this
unless we can sit down together and collectively begin to discuss our systems responsibilities towards the society ,
our efforts to become excellent as individual institutions will continue toe toward our efforts to achieve real educational excellence as a system.
If nothing else , an extended inter institutional conversation about the issues
that I've been mentioning here at the system's level would make it clear that all of us in higher education , not to mention the rest of the society , have a heavy state
in broadening our conception of studentssuccess
and in redefining
our concept of what makes us excellent and in particular on the priority that we must assign to the effective education of the underprepared students
at the state and systems and local levels , we have to sit down together all types of institutions and begin a serious discussion of our mutual ambivalence about remediation and under preparation.
These institutional conversations could also cover a number of other related issues that cry out for collaborative effort ,
coordination and expansion of community service and service learning programs. Community needs local governmental problems , diversity and multiculturalism. Sharing of resource is admissions , transfer credits and so forth.
But the one that cries out most urgently for attention is the under prepared for remedial students
the necessity for us to move away from a purely competitive and individualistic
mindset. What's good for our institution into adopt more of a collaborative or consortium approach to defining Studentssuccess
into the under preparation problem becomes clearer when we consider what might happen if one of us were to try to go it alone.
As long as the different colleges universities in the state ,
continue to operate independently and persist in their traditional beliefs about excellence. And in the case of you , I would say not just a state but a region the Big 10 region.
Any institution
automatically puts its excellence at risk
if it unilaterally decides to broaden its conception of success and to admit substantially greater numbers of underprepared students or to invest substantially more of its resources and educating such stupid
if we could be successful and stimulating the kinds of systems. Discussions of these issues that I'm envisioning hear the conversation would soon begin to focus on the various arguments that we traditionally used to defend selective admissions.
For example , a frequently used defense is what I like to call the prediction argument
now. To put this in a nutshell. The prediction argument says that we defend the use of of these narrow
conceptions of student talent and success , the G p A. And the test score on the grounds that they predict performance in college.
And indeed , they do predict. But the prediction is less than ideal. But they do predict , and this is undeniably the case
now imagine
what would happen if our medical health care system were to take the same approach to its admissions policy.
And I draw a parallel here between
medicine and health care on the one hand and education on the other because we're always using industrial Anna logs. And the prediction argument makes sense in the case of a business that's trying to compete with other businesses and it wants to hire the best talent to exploit that talent for its own purposes ,
to succeed in competitions. But this model simply doesn't make sense for education. And I think by illustrating this with a medical analog , you can see what I mean. Because under that kind of a system , we would have a large number of hospitals and clinics that are underfunded ,
that are poorly staff that have poor facilities and that enroll second patient.
We would then have a smaller group of instant
of , of of
clinics and hospitals that would have , um , uh , better facilities , better paid staff and so forth , which admitted
patients with moderately severe illnesses.
And
then we would have
a small group of elite clinics and hospitals with the best paid in best trained staff and all the best and most modern equipment , which admitted on ly patients with common cold.
And that would make a lot of fence in the health care system.
What public interest , what civic interest is served by concentrating the least well prepared students in the institutions with the least resources ?
How can such an arrangement be rationalized in terms of the larger interests of the community in the society.
The fact of the matter is that it can't
to
see
why this is so. We can again use an analogy for medicine ,
and
I think in the case
of Of of
medicine we would create
ah , massive number of untreated or poorly treated
people who would then
cause us , too.
Go broke , if you will. Trying to rehabilitate ,
uh , they wouldn't be capable of working. Their families would break up. They go broke , trying to pay for their treatment on a private basis and so forth. So it seems to me that in just the same way that not valuing the education of the underprepared students , by the way we structure our institutions , we're creating the same kind of problem for ourselves later on.
Now , if we took more of a systems approach to defining Studentssuccess into confronting the problem under preparation ,
it's important to keep in mind that our greatest untapped resource , maybe the students themselves.
There's probably no other group that's better suited to tutoring underprepared students. Then they're better prepared piers.
If such pure tutoring could be built into the curriculum in a systematic fashion ,
everyone would benefit
more pedagogical resources would be invested in the education of the underprepared , and the better prepared students would have an opportunity to master course material in greater depth by teaching it to others.
As I've said in a couple of meetings earlier today , I don't think I get dumber teaching students who don't know what I know.
Maybe I do.
If such a mentoring and tutoring program were expanded to include a variety of service learning opportunities , for example , for students toe work with underprepared students in the public schools , the bonds between higher education and the local community would be greatly strengthened.
The problems that are plaguing our contemporary democracy are in many respects the same problems that the total identified more than a century and 1/2 ago , and that is the tension between individual ism and community. And it's acted out at the institutional level by our individual competitiveness inquest for greater excellence. We want to move up in the pecking order
and push others down.
This tension is exacerbated by the mistaken belief that we're independent of and separate from each other.
Even our most recent research on students , some of which I talked about Tuesday night , highlights the importance of community.
The single most important source of influence on the individual student turns out to be the peer group.
In light of the reduced funding and other external pressures that we're experiencing today , don't it seems only fair to ask ,
Do we have the wherewithal to undertake the kinds of new ventures I've been suggesting this afternoon
In our haste to man the barricades to defend ourselves against external threats , we're inclined to forget that the autonomy that we seek to protect
may be the most powerful tool that we have for reshaping our notions of studentssuccess
and institutional excellence more in the direction of promoting democracy and citizenship.
There's nobody standing in our way of doing this except ourselves.
The fact remains , this is what we tend to forget , that we still retain control over practically all of the decisions that really matter
whom to admit and howto admit. Um , what courses and what worked to require of our students , what to teach , how to teach it , how we afe s and evaluate our students , how we define their success ,
how we structure our co curricular programs , how we higher reward and tenure our colleagues.
What policies and procedures we used to govern ourselves and what subject matter we choose in our research.
In closing , I'd like to emphasize once more than how we define six fat.
And how we define excellence is really a matter of our values and beliefs.
The initial check for academia at this point is not so much to abandon or change these traditional beliefs , but simply to become more conscious of them and of their effect on our policies and practices in our professional lives.
It's one thing to embrace beliefs that don't serve us well , but quite another to be largely unaware of their influence in our lives.
This kind of reflective inquiry into our values and beliefs is sorely needed in academia. For the past few years , we've been working with a group of academics from across the country to explore issues related to meaning , purpose and spirituality and academic work. And what we found is despite all of the claims that were objective , detached scholars ,
many indeed most of us I want to talk about these issues ,
but we don't have the venues. We don't have the opportunities.
The problem is that academic institutions , as currently structured , offer a few such opportunities for these conversations around values and beliefs and many institutions actively discourages.
I believe that an open inquire into our most deeply felt values and beliefs
to our narrow approach to defining Studentssuccess on our preoccupation with acquiring resources and enhancing reputation's being smart and being seen by others. That smart has affected practically everything we do
and that many of these effects are contrary not only to our best interests as academics , but also to the educational mission of our institution in the larger society.
We need to begin a serious discussion of why we persist in defining success so narrowly
and why we have come to worship merely being smart as opposed to the value of developing smartness.
And we need to consider our concept of smartness
so that it encompasses many of those qualities that promotes civic life and social responsibility.
Such discussions and reflections will almost certainly serve us well not only in our efforts to effect a meaningful reforms in our approach to educating underprepared students and educating students in general toward greater civic responsibility , but also to our desire to lead Mohr authentic and productive lives as academics.
Thanks very much
you
want that for me ? That's all right.
If you can hear me here ,
Is it something ?
Retake Question answers. Now
just a couple of announcements before just a couple of announcements before we take the questions
for harassing
you about
service. And I asked , Dick McCabe ,
too , is a true my 100% service to students on this campus. No fitting person. Now , that day to make the announcement.
Thank you.
I didn't want Teo quickly remind you and hope that many of you in the room pack are. Here is a part of the 17th annual Spring Symposium on promoting student success , fostering academic achievement
and increasing Persistence Graduation program in this year's being sponsored by their frying in the Office for American Affairs. Along I'm Sorry , Officer Academic Affairs
moment. They're putting all kinds of messages together
Office of the vice chancellor for academic affair in the office of the Vice Chancellor for Student Affairs , to once again create an environment where we can come together to talk about fusion's do learning and campus climate. There is a reception after this program 5 30 for all of those who are this lecture today and also going to be a part of the symposium and then tomorrow we have old SYRIZA program beginning here at nine o'clock and then carrying on through the day with actually three sets of concurrent session's over 70 different presentations involving 45 different themes involving colleagues from around the campus telling you what they're doing in the classroom and what they're doing outside the classroom to make the university environment in Bloomington stimulating and educational experiences that can possibly be for our students. So if you wandered into the lecture this afternoon and didn't necessarily know this was also a part of a symposium , registration is instantaneous.
You're already and now
you can
very , very friendly operation. You can now participate in these programmes , and I'm against us and we have copies of the schedule just outside the door.
Tomorrow morning , we'll have them outside the door. So they 15 in the morning. You could show up here for a continental breakfast and then get a schedule of the day's programs and activities. We got to see at least as many folks in the morning as we have here. Now we'll start with a panel presentation and then move into the various topics of the day. So thank you for coming to the lecture this afternoon. Thank you. Also for participating in this supposed.
And now we're going back to questions and say the fear that might come back to you with questions.
Yes.
I'm fascinated
that you
that you acknowledge that beliefs are important part of higher education. And as you
suggest that our policy should reflect ,
we might
be better to come down here because I don't think the acoustics. Can you hear him ?
Yes and no.
Yeah.
There was plenty of court , so my
question concerns your emphasis on beliefs. And
I'm wondering
when you suggest that our policies in
institutions of higher learning should reflect certain beliefs. How you make the decision which beliefs are included in which are because you said honesty is an important belief for education. But if I
had a Christian would say , you know , we should be honest , because word is this crisis. What's your game ? Hey , your navy made that would probably be considered anathema to the higher education system that I experienced. So how do you make that decision
which values are working in politics ? Which ones ?
Now
that's a very very good in a question , and I think the example you gave. I think there's a distinction between what what
kinds of success was fouled becoming more honest , valuing honesty more and reasons why was found on the leash over our reasons for this.
And I think that's less important than then. We have some kind of collective discussion to see what our common values are. Ana. I've suggested that some of the
I do have to do with ,
uh , the human qualities that make for effective parents and effective citizens ,
and we know what some of these are. It seems to me
whether we are trying to , we're not. We do , in fact , about some of these towns. But we don't do very explicitly. Are our research on students in the case , for example , that leadership skills are article ,
uh , fairly well in some kind of institutions ,
but not necessarily as a result of some kind of conscious intention to do so. This
is sort of a byproduct.
I
it seems to me that what you've done is describe the problem.
It's sort of like a steer
on the Titanic saying iceberg
on the horizon with velvet handed with Berg is there ,
Uh , but I haven't suggested
the means by which to avoid crash.
I'm specifically thinking about an institution like
Indiana University , which responded through
significant contributions from the state. The funding of individual students funded through the contributions of the national government way controlling off a lot. As you point out , uh , important formative of success. But we don't have the money in our pockets way don't have the wealth to be independent ,
and the system is more complex than that.
Your description. I'm curious as to how you proposed beginning to turn the ship.
Well , if you just take two issues of ,
uh , curriculum content and pedagogical techniques , ast two examples
where we have
almost free reign , particularly the general education program to design if any way we want.
It's not like this one of those unusual universities where that responsibility for general education is vested , maurine the department's
anod not odd , maybe unusual way to put it. There are other institutions to do this , and that gives certain certain
decentralisation
of the
general education program. But the
point is , is that sitting down collectively in the scuffing
both the content and
the teaching methods that we use in the light of this broader conception of students. Success might indeed lead us to make some major revisions in the curriculum content in the teaching techniques. That's that's sort of what I have in mind collaborative learning , for example , if and the evidence. And that's pretty compelling on DH service. Learning both underutilized techniques ,
they have , uh , it seems to me obvious relevance to these
issues of democracy and citizenship in the
community.
At least here
you
can work
that
I
have all the things that you said you wanted.
Students can teach others.
I have two ,
two adults to have
been a failed star. Systems back
now , they collectively learned how I could go back.
Disappointed. I thought that after they have failed , some learn some content and rather spend most of my time course material. I spend all time
tutoring regulation in behavior , and I wonder. Alex Research we're actually doing uses students
instead of looking students or , judging by their results , can't spend time. I just hired applications
where students who excel excel more teaching , so they concentrate on
question. How I wonder if there's money spanning half , he describes.
We're actually involving the process of students teaching other students. And
there are many examples off
very effective collaborative learning , which is what
students teaching students is
all about. That one model a
peer tutoring is another model , but they all capitalized on the win win game aspect of this , where both the , uh , student who's teaching or tutoring and the two T or the student of the recent recipient benefit from this. So we literally create more educational resources by going in the direction of pure tutoring and collaborative learning.
And , uh , if there are other aspects to this that are critical as well. What are we symbolised in our institution when we put a high value on teaching each other when we put a high value on our best students helping the slower students or , in the case of service , learning where we put a high value on learning , which includes serving others ?
And what What's remarkable about about the research on this is that it appears that both collaborative learning and service learning are better
forms off instruction in terms of the extent of student learning and development , and , as it turns out , they do have positive effects. Both of these approaches on some of the citizenship qualities. I was talking about such a leadership , which is tremendously enhanced by participating in community services. Part of course ,
students learn how to get things done. They learn howto work together collaboratively to make things happen ,
and that that's a very empowering experience as well as on opportunity to really check out the theoretical course content as to how it plays out in the real world. Sometimes
they , they discovered , doesn't play off very well , much to the chagrin of us. But , uh ,
way back here ,
your old
can process ,
uh ,
I think
that ,
uh ,
the
value of tenure is limited by the way that we conceive of it and use it frankly. But , you know , like for me ,
I sort of find myself biting the hand that feeds me a lot , you know , coming from LA and talking this way.
And
I really wonder if I would be so
uh ,
blunt about some of these things. If I didn't have a 10 year , I don't know. It's a good question.
Uh , I'm not sure I like the things that it wouldn't make any difference ,
but I don't know.
Umm , the
problem with tenure is that
the people who most need it don't
have it. That's that's that's the
problem.
Is that our youngest , most vulnerable people , the assistant professors who would want to be an assistant professor , actually anymore in a research university ?
Um , seems like our doctors didn't want to do that , but it really I wonder about that. Uh , you know , in some ways it's kind of an untenable situation , but , uh ,
so these these folks are really
threatened and intimidated by the process because they don't have any protection ,
and they really do steer their research. And they're collegial behavior ,
very gingerly.
At least that's my experience with assistant professors.
Um ,
so I don't know. Tenure , unfortunately , has been represented as job security , and I don't think that's really was over the intent of it. But that seems to be the way that it's been seen , and its connection to academic freedom seems to have been largely lost. But for me , that's the only value
of tenure
really is to protect academic freedom and whether it
does. I got some questions about
Young
40 years ago to study. I think way
Jacob
Booth people were going to college for
eight year old pretty much the same kind of people.
And , uh , 20 years later ,
there was a door
between us
and foreigners
extend
every call
waiting
and no made more
doctor's orders
here.
But in terms of , uh , most things call
civic responsibility.
My question
that they're following ,
and is there anything
really sure makes a difference. If one goes for
yeah , the question have to
do with Jacob's much cited
book , based on research done in the fifties , I believe fifties early sixties
uh , which concluded , among other things , that college is really don't change people's values very much ,
And uh , that's not what we find ,
but what we
do find this is
the source of that effect on values is not what we like to think it is
for a lot of a lot of reasons.
The source of the influence is very heavily the peer group ,
Uh , and , uh ,
fortunately , there's some measurable factly. And for what ?
Uh , but
peer group is a major source of influence on
the students Values on , uh ,
and also service learning experience with Jacobs had no opportunity to study has a profound effect on certain values ,
um , commitment to for example. Commitment to promoting racial understanding
strongly influenced by participation in community service
commitment. Tio
uh , basically ,
the notion of wanting to be a social change agent
the sense that you can make a difference , that that belief is strengthened
because most students
don't think they could make a difference.
Uh , but
those who have the opportunity to , uh , experience service learning actually strengthened their belief
that they can make a difference or abandon their belief that they can.
I
see
any other hands.
I apologize for my kind of fumbling around here. There was no light on my papers and I'm I was really struggling. Tto see my notes.
Five guys for that. It was tough to see
him ,
so
I kind of fumbled
around a few times there ,
but
I can't see in the back
there. That's what I associate it to
any other hands.
Uh , here's one.
Alright.
Has a student. One of the
problems I see is that students don't want toe
because
they're not taking advantage of the resource is off.
Do you find that in your
research ? Yeah , uh , this is part of the trends I talked about on Tuesday night
That that the students
are not.
The students coming to college today are
left inclined to see the college experience for its intrinsic value.
That is the joy of learning and the joy of self development. This sort of thing is just that's just the white students are ,
And yet we don't seem to have acknowledged that just what we do know that reality.
Uh , and I'm talking in relative terms now. There's plenty of students who who are very inclined to get engaged or just not. As many
as there used to be more students who
who are not. And that's part of the kind of excessive materialism of society is. I see it the idea that the reason you go to college is to get a better job , make more money ,
and that has to do again with these different conceptions of higher education. You know , the competitive , his argument , the pegboard view and so forth.
And if we embrace those viewpoints , and of course we're just reinforcing these problems. But , uh , I think the issue of engaging students who are here for instrumental reasons ,
er is a real challenge. But we have ways of doing it , and I was talking about. Some of those were those techniques Tuesday night , but and we've mentioned a couple today. Collaborative learning is very engaging because students know their work is going to be scrutinized by their peers ,
and they take responsibility for their peers learning to a certain extent
same thing with , uh , community service. Work down in the context , of course ,
eyes that there there
there is a tremendous pure group effect here off ,
basically trying to collaboratively provided a meaningful service to others.
And that's a very powerful experience. For soon just talked with students who had served learning brings. It's pretty impressive ,
in fact , members for that. Try it. You'll like it.
Our
what ?
Well , I'm not trying to
take Harbor. That's beyond
that's beyond anybody's
capabilities ,
huh ?
But
see , again , we're talking about beliefs. Here is a really interesting issues is that if you don't believe you can change the place ,
that's a self fulfilling prophecy mean , Think about it. Think how much effort you're going to exert on behalf of a change effort. If you don't think it's gonna work ,
it's very interesting. Beliefs becomes self fulfilling prophecies mean they literally , uh , shape your experience.
You know , we think experience
shapes beliefs , but it works the other way as
well , you know , So we behave as so that our experience will support our beliefs. Because if our beliefs weren't supported by our experience , we'd go crazy.
And so I think to me that if we believe we can change our institutions , we can damn sure do it because we have the tools.
Uh , it's a learning process. It'll happen slowly. And resistance
to change efforts in an institution
is the best evidence that you're making progress.
That's the paradox of
resistance.
He's joined him at the reception in the University club , and if you have questions , ask you privately ,
just
thank you for
waiting.